I hope you did well with
challenge number 12,
trying to lay out these
images in a mosaic grid.
And so let's go through exactly what
I did in terms of my code and and
how I solve this particular problem.
So here in my HTML, we have
the setup as pretty much as you saw.
The HTML written in the Flexbox
portion of the course
we have a section I've given it
an id of pop art to be consistent
with the notation that I was
using inside of Flexbox.
We have an h2 called Pop Art.
And then we have our images set in
an unordered list because this is
just a series of images,
they could go in any particular order.
Inside of that we have a series
of figures and figure captions.
And those have images and
the figure caption associated with
them the figure caption has the link.
That's basically the way this
is set up the whole way through.
So what I would need to do to this HTML
in order to make this work you'll see
that occasionally I have
thrown in a call span2.
And occasionally I've
thrown in a row span2.
So that is what is going to be
responsible for driving the spanning
of the various cells and
columns here inside of my layout because
what we're going to do is we're
going to declare our grid on.
And then our allies become our children so
the url is the grid container or
the parent the allies are the children or
the grid items and
that's the way this is
all going to line up.
All right so, as always,
the best place to start with this
is to take a look at your image.
And you're going think about how many
columns and how many rows you have here.
So here we've got one, two,
three, four, five, rows.
And we've got one, two,
three columns, which is great.
And then we just start setting
things up accordingly.
Inside of our CSS if you
scroll on down here,
given you a lot of CSS
that we wrote yesterday.
So starting here inside of the media
query, remember outside the media query,
the images we'll just stack
on top of each other.
There's actually no styling for
the pop art portion of the site outside of
the media query but inside of it,
we've added our pop url.
That will be our display grid.
And I want three evenly sized columns.
Easiest way to do that is just to
make them all one fraction big.
And I gave them a 10 pixel gap.
Then I set up my three styles here
call span2, a call span 3 and
a row span 2and all I had to
do is set up a grid column or
grid row property and
just set it up to say span2 or span3.
So wherever I happen to place
that in the particular web page,
then the image is going to span over
that many columns or that many rows.
Notice here too,
I've added at the bottom here for
some reason the fingers don't
always fill their LI container.
So I found that by adding a height of
100% on the figure help to keep those
evenly sized.
So that is how I solve this
particular problem here,
inside of this particular challenge.
So that is the first part of this,
we've got a mosaic grid all coded up for
you want to take a quick peek
at that inside of the webpage.
So here's the way it winds up looking.
We have our various images,
they're all of the same height,
and it's a fun and engaging layout.
There was nothing wrong with what we did
with Flexbox in terms of all of those
images all next to each other But
this to me is much more interesting
from a design perspective.
All right, so
now that we've got that in place.
Let's go on to incorporating
that grid layout.
Now, it's plugging in to our main
Webpage and what I did was I got rid of
the collections portion of that web page
and substituted in this pop art piece.
If you wanted to keep that collections
layout that we coded in the Flexbox
portion of the course There's
absolutely nothing wrong with that.
You could just add this on as part
of the webpage if you wanted.
So we're starting with the HTML here
with our incorporating this pop
art into the main homepage.
This is the homepage from yesterday, and
I have scrolled all the way
down to the bottom.
Close to the bottom anyway
past the featured print,
Some of down around line 83.
And I just copied the HTML that I
had generated in the 12 A exercise,
pasted it here into my index.HTML.
I didn't need to make any
changes here along the way.
Because I have all of the styling that
I had been previously using is carrying
over here into this design.
The only thing that needs
to be added are those
additional classes that are going to make
this a grid system instead of Flexbox.
And the classes that are going to set
up the spans across the columns and
across the rows.
So then here inside of our CSS,
Down around line 157,
this is outside of the media queries.
I had set up our figures to have
one border color in this case,
I picked color number eight.
You could have picked any of the colors
that probably would have been fine.
I also set up the object position and
the object fit here.
For the image, the object position is set
to 0 and the object fit is set to cover.
To differentiate these images from some
of the other ones that we had where we're
changing some of the positions in
the Flexbox portion of the course.
Okay, and
then inside of our tablet media query,
we're all the way down to line 395
inside of our tablet media query and
in here I have copied over are the call
span and row span columns here.
And then finally the last thing that
I did here on row span2 figure I
have a max height of unset.
We had previously put on
the figure elements way,
way far up towards the top in
the mobile version of this website.
We had set it to have a max height
of 400 pixels for all of our images.
When you bring your mosaic into
this layout here on this homepage,
that max height of 400 pixels would
apply to everything that's inside of
your grid system.
In that particular case the way these
images are in their sizes and so
forth it really chopped them all in
pieces and so I didn't like that effect.
I just turned off the max height
here by using the unset value so
it would forget about that
max height of 400 pixels.
And so that fix that problem particularly
on the rowspan2 where that was an issue.
And that's pretty much all I needed to do.
Those styles will carry then
into the desktop layout,
which is exactly what we want.
So that's how you can code up a little
example over here in isolation and
then very easily integrated
into your homepage